So here's a question, what does navigation look like on React Native, what is a good navigation system?
Because so far what we've been looking at is basically just building our own very, very simple version
of navigation.
And so throughout the years, navigation in Riak native has basically taken a big turn where it used
to be a couple of big packages that were taking the industry by storm.
I believe there was a package called Riak Native Navigation, and this was by Wick's.
And it is a native navigation solution and it is still maintained today.
It was a bit different.
It took a fully native approach and there were other navigations that were taking a non-native approach.
So you have to think about it this way, right.
We're in fact, native.
And so the question became, do we do a full native solution or do we do a hybrid solution?
So what I mean by that is when we look at the phone, right.
Well, we're writing all of our code and JavaScript, but the phone is running iOS or Android.
So the question becomes, do you do navigation?
Where do you program your navigation?
Navigation is something inherently custom to the platform.
The navigation you do on iOS versus something on Android is completely different.
You could have on iOS SWIP actions where on Android you would have a bottom bar here that would have
interactions, write the buttons at the bottom.
And so the question became, OK, do we write our navigation code for the library in Android?
And iOS is specific language, which is Objective C or Swift and Java or Cocklin, and then expose an
interface to JavaScript that can write and interact with this navigation.
So basically making the navigation portion completely native, or do we do a full JavaScript approach?
And so the Riak native industry went back and forth, back and forth, back and forth on this for a
couple of years.
And right now where we've landed is.
Riak navigation is kind of the one stop solution, the best solution for navigation react native, it's
easy to use because you can start quickly by building Navigator's with an out-of-the-box experience.
It has components built for iOS and Android, specifically with a custom look and feel and smooth animations
and transitions.
It's customizable and it's extensible.
Now, all of these things basically mean they worked very hard and very long to get the right approach
to this.
And so with that, we can first of all try the demo app.
So they have a demo app in here and they allow you to run this basically on XPO or the Web app in the
browser.
So this is cross compatible.
So you can go to this example and you can run the app on XPO by scanning this QR code right here.
You can pause video and scan this and try out Riak navigation or we can open it in the browser.
So with that said, you are able to test it out, but if we go and read the docs, what we're going
to do is basically we're going to follow the installation step by step.
You see what it says here is what follows is the fundamental section.
So we need to understand how reachin application works before we get into the depths of it all.
And so this getting started guide covers enough for you to get started in the small, small scale application.
And again, we're layering like a cake.
So we're going to start off small.
We're just going to add some navigation and then we're going to do some more complex things.
And so here are some of the resources, right?
There's an express section.
There's a main concepts of react.
They have all of this good documentation that you can read through if you want.
And we're going to follow an implementation that goes kind of like this.
First of all, we're going to install the required packages in our Riak native projects, so we're going
to copy this command and as always, we're going to go over here and we're going to open our terminal.
Right, which is over here.
And we can open a new one.
And what we can do is we can run this command right here.
Right.
We can run yarn, ad rack navigation, slash native.
And so this is going to install all of the required dependencies and so let's continue reading while
this installs so Riak navigation is made up of some core utilities and then there are the navigators.
So these are the core utilities and then they have specific navigators.
Now they basically created an ecosystem of packages.
So they made it customizable, like you get the need of core utilities for the navigation and then you
can decide, well, do I need a tab navigation or stock navigation and all of these different things.
OK, so now the libraries that we need to install are adjust your handler, react, native reanimated,
react, native screens react native safe area context, react native masked view.
Now this is where it gets a little tricky.
Do we need to know specifically what every single one of these packages does?
Yes and no.
We can go and read up on them specifically, but basically their packages that enhance the experience
of riak navigation.
By exposing specific areas of need of code to react navigation, so installing the dependencies on an
Expo managed project, which we are on, is by running the following comment and this will just install,
react native, just handler, react native Reanimator, all of these different things that we need to
install.
So it's as simple as running that command now.
So we'll copy paste that.
Well, that's a long one and that's going to go through in cycle and install every single thing that
we need.
OK, so now that all of these things are installing, we can ignore this section because we're not on
a bear project.
And if we scroll down, OK, we're at the end of it.
So in the next video, what we're going to do once all of this is installed is set it up.